Nuxt 3 - Quickstart (#3012)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/quickstarts/quickstart-javascript-nuxt-web.mdx

```
git clone https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nuxt-web.git
cd fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nuxt-web
```

### Run FusionAuth Via Docker

<DockerSpinup kickstartUri={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/kickstart/kickstart.json"} />

### Create Nuxt Application

In this section, you'll set up a basic Nuxt application with three pages. 

1. Homepage
1. Account - protected
1. Makechange - protected

Create a new application using the `npx`.

```shell
npx nuxi@latest init changebank
```

Make sure you are in your new directory `changebank`.

```shell
cd changebank
```

Install [@sidebase/nuxt-auth](https://sidebase.io/nuxt-auth/v0.6/getting-started/installation), which simplifies integrating with FusionAuth and creating a secure web application.

```shell
npm install next-auth
```

Copy environment variables from our complete application example.

```shell
cp ../complete-application/.env.example .env.local
```

Also copy an image file into a new directory within `public` called `img`.

```shell
mkdir ./public/img && cp ../complete-application/public/img/money.jpg ./public/img/money.jpg
```

## Authentication

> Update `nuxt.config.ts` to include the new `@sidebase/nuxt-auth` and include the provider type of `authjs` just like below. Please note if you would like to code with any of the pages prior to enabling authentication, just set `globalAppMiddleware` to false.

Reviewer: The "Please note..." sentence should be in an Aside with type = note.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/nuxt.config.ts"}
  lang="ts" />

> Nuxt 3 includes <a href="https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/server#server-routes" target="_blank">Route Handlers</a>, which are the preferred way to handle REST-like requests. In the `Changebank` application you can configure NextAuth.js FusionAuth's provider in a new route handler by creating a file within `/server/api/auth/[...].ts`.

Reviewer: As not a Nuxt developer, the file name [...].ts is a little weird. If this is normal in Nuxt then leave, if not, maybe make another note that the file name contains the brackets and dots.

On first load of Nuxt this file will make sure that you have all of the correct environment variables. The variables are then exported in an object called `authOptions` which can be imported on the server when you need to get our session using `getServerSession`.

The `FusionAuthProvider` is then provided to `NextAuth` as a provider for any `GET` or `POST` commands that are sent to the `/api/auth/*` route.

Create a new file named `/server/api/auth/[...].ts` and copy the following code for the ChangeBank application.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/server/api/auth/[...].ts"}
  lang="ts" />

## App Customization

### Styles

> Create a new file named `/complete-application/assets/css/global.css` and copy the below CSS for the ChangeBank application.

Reviewer: Should this be in the `changebank` directory instead of complete-application?

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/assets/css/global.css"}
  lang="css" />

> The above styles will be imported into a new layout that you will create called `/complete-application/layouts/default.vue`. Update this file to match the code below. This will allow the rest of the pages within our application and the layout itself to use the global styles. This is the first time that you will use the [useAuth](https://sidebase.io/nuxt-auth/v0.6/application-side/session-access-and-management) Composable from Sidebase. The status can then be used to determine what links should be shown in the layout.

Reviewer: changebank or complete-application?

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/layouts/default.vue"}
  lang="ts" />

### Login Button

> Create a new file in `/complete-application/components/LoginButton.vue` that will be used for a button component.

Reviewer: changeback or complete-application?

check all pages

For this button you can use the `signIn` and `signOut` functions from the `useAuth` composable. Copy the below code for the ChangeBank application into `/complete-application/components/LoginButton.vue`.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/components/LoginButton.vue"}
  lang="ts" />

### Login Link

> Create a new file in `/complete-application/components/LoginLink.vue` that will be used for a link component. For this link you can use the the same `signIn` function from the `useAuth` composable as you did in the button above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new file in `/complete-application/components/LoginLink.vue` that will be used for a link component. For this link you can use the same `signIn` function from the `useAuth` composable as you did in the button above.
```

Copy the below code for the ChangeBank application into `/complete-application/components/LoginLink.vue`.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/components/LoginLink.vue"}
  lang="ts" />

### Home Page

Update the file `/complete-application/pages/index.vue` which will have the Homepage details. Not much here just an image and a Login Link.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/pages/index.vue"}
  lang="ts" />

### Account Page

Create a new file `/complete-application/pages/account.vue` which will have some fake Account details.

One special note here is that if you leave the auth `globalAppMiddleware` enabled in `nuxt.config.ts` you will need to authenticate to access this page.

Here's the contents of `/complete-application/pages/account.vue`.
<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/pages/account.vue"}
  lang="ts" />

### Make Change Page

> Finally, we'll add some business logic for logged in users to make change with the following code in `/complete-application/pages/account.vue`:

Reviewer: Am I just supposed to add this to the bottom of the account .vue page? I think it should be makechange.vue

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/pages/makechange.vue"}
  lang="ts" />

> If the user session is not present the user is redirect back to the homepage at the base route. If the user is present then the `MakeChangeForm` is presented. Create a new file located at `/complete-application/components/MakeChangeForm.vue` with the below code. This component has all of the business logic needed for taking in a dollar amount of money and returning the correct amount of each coin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user session is not present the user is redirected back to the homepage at the base route. If the user is present then the `MakeChangeForm` is presented. Create a new file located at `/complete-application/components/MakeChangeForm.vue` with the below code. This component has all of the business logic needed for taking in a dollar amount of money and returning the correct amount of each coin.
```

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/components/MakeChangeForm.vue"}
  lang="ts" />

### Run the Application

You can now open up an incognito window and visit the Nuxt app at http://localhost:3000/. Log in with the user account you created when setting up FusionAuth, and you’ll see the email of the user next to a logout button.

```shell
npm run dev
```

Try clicking the `Login` button at the top or the link at the center of the screen.

> This will take you through the `NextAuth.js` authentication flow. Automatically presenting the FusionAuth Login page because we have `fusionauth` set as the provider in our Login Button `signIn('fusionauth', { callbackUrl: '/account' })`. If you would like to see all providers you can set `fusionauth` to `undefined`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will take you through the `NextAuth.js` authentication flow. Since `fusionauth` is set as the provider in the Login Button `signIn('fusionauth', { callbackUrl: '/account' })`, the FusionAuth Login page will be automatically presented. If you would like to see all providers you can set `fusionauth` to `undefined`.
```

* [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads/): Not required but recommended if you want to track your changes.

## General Architecture

<LoginArchitectureWeb />

## Getting Started
In this section, you'll get FusionAuth up and running, and configured with the ChangeBank application.

### Clone The Code
First off, grab the code from the repository and change into that directory.

```
git clone https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nuxt-web.git
cd fusionauth-quickstart-javascript-nuxt-web
```

### Run FusionAuth Via Docker

<DockerSpinup kickstartUri={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/kickstart/kickstart.json"} />

### Create Nuxt Application

In this section, you'll set up a basic Nuxt application with three pages. 

1. Homepage
1. Account - protected
1. Makechange - protected

Create a new application using the `npx`.

```shell
npx nuxi@latest init changebank
```

Make sure you are in your new directory `changebank`.

```shell
cd changebank
```

Install [@sidebase/nuxt-auth](https://sidebase.io/nuxt-auth/v0.6/getting-started/installation), which simplifies integrating with FusionAuth and creating a secure web application.

```shell
npm install next-auth
```

> Copy environment variables from our complete application example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy environment variables from the complete application example.
```

```shell
cp ../complete-application/.env.example .env.local
```

Also copy an image file into a new directory within `public` called `img`.

```shell
mkdir ./public/img && cp ../complete-application/public/img/money.jpg ./public/img/money.jpg
```

## Authentication

Update `nuxt.config.ts` to include the new `@sidebase/nuxt-auth` and include the provider type of `authjs` just like below. 

<Aside type="note">
If you would like to code with any of the pages prior to enabling authentication, just set `globalAppMiddleware` to false.
</Aside>

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/nuxt.config.ts"}
  lang="ts" />

Nuxt 3 includes <a href="https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/server#server-routes" target="_blank">Route Handlers</a>, which are the preferred way to handle REST-like requests. In the `Changebank` application you can configure NextAuth.js FusionAuth's provider in a new route handler by creating a file within `/server/api/auth/[...].ts`.

> On first load of Nuxt this file will make sure that you have all of the correct environment variables. The variables are then exported in an object called `authOptions` which can be imported on the server when you need to get our session using `getServerSession`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On first load of Nuxt this file will make sure that you have all of the correct environment variables. The variables are then exported in an object called `authOptions` which can be imported on the server when you need to get your session using `getServerSession`.
```

The `FusionAuthProvider` is then provided to `NextAuth` as a provider for any `GET` or `POST` commands that are sent to the `/api/auth/*` route.

Create a new file named `/server/api/auth/[...].ts` and copy the following code for the ChangeBank application.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/server/api/auth/[...].ts"}
  lang="ts" />

## App Customization

### Styles

Create a new file named `/changebank/assets/css/global.css` and copy the below CSS for the ChangeBank application.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/assets/css/global.css"}
  lang="css" />

> The above styles will be imported into a new layout that you will create called `/changebank/layouts/default.vue`. Update this file to match the code below. This will allow the rest of the pages within our application and the layout itself to use the global styles. This is the first time that you will use the [useAuth](https://sidebase.io/nuxt-auth/v0.6/application-side/session-access-and-management) Composable from Sidebase. The status can then be used to determine what links should be shown in the layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above styles will be imported into a new layout that you will create called `/changebank/layouts/default.vue`. Update this file to match the code below. This will allow the rest of the pages within your application and the layout itself to use the global styles. This is the first time that you will use the [useAuth](https://sidebase.io/nuxt-auth/v0.6/application-side/session-access-and-management) Composable from Sidebase. The status can then be used to determine what links should be shown in the layout.
```

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/layouts/default.vue"}
  lang="ts" />

### Login Button

Create a new file in `/changebank/components/LoginButton.vue` that will be used for a button component.

For this button you can use the `signIn` and `signOut` functions from the `useAuth` composable. Copy the below code for the ChangeBank application into `/changebank/components/LoginButton.vue`.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/components/LoginButton.vue"}
  lang="ts" />

### Login Link

Create a new file in `/changebank/components/LoginLink.vue` that will be used for a link component. For this link you can use the same `signIn` function from the `useAuth` composable as you did in the button above.

Copy the below code for the ChangeBank application into `/changebank/components/LoginLink.vue`.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/components/LoginLink.vue"}
  lang="ts" />

### Home Page

> Update the file `/changebank/pages/index.vue` which will have the Homepage details. Not much here just an image and a Login Link.

Reviewer: This did not exist, had to create.
